README.md, before:

# 108 Divya Desam

# Divya Desam Temples by State

| **State**        | **Number of Temples** |
|-------------------|-----------------------|
| Tamil Nadu        | 85                   |
| Kerala            | 13                   |
| Andhra Pradesh    | 2                    |
| Karnataka         | 1                    |
| Uttar Pradesh     | 3                    |
| Uttarakhand       | 1                    |
| Nepal             | 1                    |

Here is the complete list of 85 Divya Desam temples located in **Tamil Nadu**, grouped by regions:

# From TamilNadu
## Chola Nadu Divya Desam Temples (40 Temples)

| **Temple Name**                     | **City/District**      |
|-------------------------------------|-------------------------|
| Srirangam Ranganathaswamy Temple    | Srirangam              |
| Thiruvellarai                       | Tiruchirappalli        |
| Anbil                               | Lalgudi                |
| Koviladi                            | Tiruchirappalli        |
| Thirupper Nagar                     | Lalgudi                |
| Thirukandiyur                       | Thanjavur              |
| Kapisthalam                         | Thanjavur              |
| Thiru Adhanur                       | Thanjavur              |
| Pullamboothangudi                   | Thanjavur              |
| Thirukkudanthai (Sarangapani)       | Kumbakonam             |
| Nachiyar Koil                       | Kumbakonam             |
| Thiruvinnagar (Oppiliappan)         | Kumbakonam             |
| Aduthurai Perumal Temple            | Kumbakonam             |
| Thiruvidandai                       | Kumbakonam             |
| Thirumanikoodam                     | Kumbakonam             |
| Thirunageswaram                     | Kumbakonam             |
| Thiruvaikundam                      | Tirunelveli            |
| Thiruchitrakoodam (Chidambaram)     | Cuddalore              |
| Thiruvahindrapuram                  | Cuddalore              |
| Thirukkannamangai                   | Thanjavur              |
| Thirukannapuram                     | Thanjavur              |
| Thirunaraiyur                       | Kumbakonam             |
| Thiruvazhundur                      | Mayiladuthurai         |
| Thirunagari                         | Nagapattinam           |
| Thiruthuruthi                       | Mayiladuthurai         |
| Thirumanimadam                      | Mayiladuthurai         |
| Thirukannangudi                     | Mayiladuthurai         |
| Thirukavalambadi                    | Mayiladuthurai         |
| Thirukolur                          | Thoothukudi            |
| Thiruvalathur                       | Nagapattinam           |
| Thirupullani                        | Ramanathapuram         |
| Thiruthiruperai                     | Tirunelveli            |
| Thirukulandhai                      | Tirunelveli            |
| Thirumeyyam                         | Pudukkottai            |
| Thirukoshtiyur                      | Sivaganga              |
| Thirukkarambanoor                   | Tiruchirappalli        |
| Thiru Patiyur                       | Karur                  |
| Thiruchittrambalam                  | Thanjavur              |
| Thirukannangudi                     | Nagapattinam           |

## Pandya Nadu Divya Desam Temples (18 Temples)

| **Temple Name**                   | **City/District**      |
|-----------------------------------|-------------------------|
| Srivilliputhur Andal Temple       | Srivilliputhur         |
| Koodal Azhagar Temple             | Madurai                |
| Thiruthangal                      | Virudhunagar           |
| Thirumoghur                       | Madurai                |
| Thiruppullani                     | Ramanathapuram         |
| Thirukoshtiyur                    | Sivaganga              |
| Thirumeyyam                       | Pudukkottai            |
| Thirukkurungudi                   | Tirunelveli            |
| Azhwar Thirunagari                | Tirunelveli            |
| Thiruthiruperai                   | Tirunelveli            |
| Thirukulandhai (Thenthiruperai)   | Tirunelveli            |
| Thirukolur                        | Tirunelveli            |
| Thiruvanparisaram                 | Kanyakumari            |
| Thirupathiur                      | Sivaganga              |
| Thiruparamkunram                  | Madurai                |
| Thirumaliruncholai (Azhagar Koil) | Madurai                |
| Thirukannamangai                  | Nagapattinam           |
| Nava Tirupati (9 Temples combined)| Tirunelveli            |


## Tondai Nadu Divya Desam Temples (22 Temples)

| **Temple Name**                   | **City/District**      |
|-----------------------------------|-------------------------|
| Sri Varadaraja Perumal Temple     | Kanchipuram            |
| Sri Deepa Prakasar Temple         | Kanchipuram            |
| Sri Ulagalantha Perumal Temple    | Kanchipuram            |
| Sri Ashtabhujakaram Temple        | Kanchipuram            |
| Sri Vaikunta Nathan Temple        | Kanchipuram            |
| Sri Pandava Thootha Temple        | Kanchipuram            |
| Thiruooragam                      | Kanchipuram            |
| Thiruthanka                       | Kanchipuram            |
| Thiruvelukkai                     | Kanchipuram            |
| Thiruneeragam                     | Kanchipuram            |
| Thirukarvanam                     | Kanchipuram            |
| Thirukachur                       | Chengalpattu           |
| Thiruneermalai                    | Chennai                |
| Sri Parthasarathy Temple          | Chennai                |
| Thiruvidandai                     | Chennai                |
| Thirupadagam                      | Kanchipuram            |
| Thiruputkuzhi                     | Kanchipuram            |
| Thiruvellikeni                    | Chennai                |
| Thiruthiruvallikeni               | Chennai                |
| Thirupavalavannam                 | Kanchipuram            |
| Thirunilathingal                  | Kanchipuram            |
| Thiruthiruparamkundram            | Kanchipuram            |

## Nadu Nadu Divya Desam Temples (5 Temples)

| **Temple Name**                   | **City/District**      |
|-----------------------------------|-------------------------|
| Thiruvahindrapuram Temple         | Cuddalore              |
| Thirukannangudi Temple            | Mayiladuthurai         |
| Thirukkannamangai Temple          | Thanjavur              |
| Thirumanimadam Temple             | Mayiladuthurai         |
| Thirunagari Temple                | Nagapattinam           |

# From Kerla
## Kerala Divya Desam Temples (13 Temples)

| **Temple Name**                   | **City/District**      |
|-----------------------------------|-------------------------|
| Sri Padmanabhaswamy Temple        | Thiruvananthapuram     |
| Thiruvalla Temple                 | Thiruvalla             |
| Moozhikulam Temple                | Ernakulam              |
| Thirukatkarai Temple              | Ernakulam              |
| Thiruvankulam Temple              | Kottayam               |
| Thirupuliyur Temple               | Kozhikode              |
| Thiruthanikai Temple              | Alappuzha              |
| Thiruvilwamala Temple             | Thrissur               |
| Thirumandhamkunnu Temple          | Malappuram             |
| Thiruvanjikulam Temple            | Ernakulam              |
| Thiruvikramangalam Temple         | Palakkad               |
| Thiruvanvandoor Temple            | Kottayam               |
| Thirumandhamkunnu Temple          | Malappuram             |

# From Andra Pradesh
## Andhra Pradesh Divya Desam Temples (2 Temples)

| **Temple Name**                   | **City/District**      |
|-----------------------------------|-------------------------|
| Sri Venkateswara Temple           | Tirupati               |
| Ahobilam Narasimha Swamy Temple   | Kurnool                |

# From Karnataka
## Karnataka Divya Desam Temple (1 Temple)

| **Temple Name**                   | **City/District**      |
|-----------------------------------|-------------------------|
| Srirangapatna Ranganathaswamy Temple | Srirangapatna         |

# From UttarPradesh

## Uttar Pradesh Divya Desam Temples (3 Temples)

| **Temple Name**                   | **City/District**      |
|-----------------------------------|-------------------------|
| Naimisaranya Temple               | Sitapur                |
| Gokul Balaji Temple               | Mathura                |
| Ayodhya Rama Temple               | Ayodhya                |

# From Uttarkand

## Uttarakhand Divya Desam Temple (1 Temple)

| **Temple Name**                   | **City/District**      |
|-----------------------------------|-------------------------|
| Badrinath Temple                  | Badrinath             |

---


# From Nepal
## Nepal Divya Desam Temple (1 Temple)

| **Temple Name**                   | **City/District**      |
| Mukthinath Temple                 | Mustang                |

# Reference Link(s)
Update soon

# Google Map state wise
Update soon

Commit message:

Update Format and brief information for users

README.md, after:

# List of 108 Divya Desam

You can find an information about each temple, including its name and location, along with reference links to Google Maps for easy navigation. The temples are categorized by state, with their respective cities or districts listed.

# Summary of Divya Desam Temples by State

| **State**        | **Number of Temples** |
|-------------------|-----------------------|
| Tamil Nadu        | 85                   |
| Kerala            | 13                   |
| Andhra Pradesh    | 2                    |
| Karnataka         | 1                    |
| Uttar Pradesh     | 3                    |
| Uttarakhand       | 1                    |
| Nepal             | 1                    |

# From TamilNadu
Here is the complete list of 85 Divya Desam temples located in **Tamil Nadu**, grouped by regions:

## Chola Nadu Divya Desam Temples (40 Temples)

| **Temple Name**                     | **City/District**      |
|-------------------------------------|-------------------------|
| Srirangam Ranganathaswamy Temple    | Srirangam              |
| Thiruvellarai                       | Tiruchirappalli        |
| Anbil                               | Lalgudi                |
| Koviladi                            | Tiruchirappalli        |
| Thirupper Nagar                     | Lalgudi                |
| Thirukandiyur                       | Thanjavur              |
| Kapisthalam                         | Thanjavur              |
| Thiru Adhanur                       | Thanjavur              |
| Pullamboothangudi                   | Thanjavur              |
| Thirukkudanthai (Sarangapani)       | Kumbakonam             |
| Nachiyar Koil                       | Kumbakonam             |
| Thiruvinnagar (Oppiliappan)         | Kumbakonam             |
| Aduthurai Perumal Temple            | Kumbakonam             |
| Thiruvidandai                       | Kumbakonam             |
| Thirumanikoodam                     | Kumbakonam             |
| Thirunageswaram                     | Kumbakonam             |
| Thiruvaikundam                      | Tirunelveli            |
| Thiruchitrakoodam (Chidambaram)     | Cuddalore              |
| Thiruvahindrapuram                  | Cuddalore              |
| Thirukkannamangai                   | Thanjavur              |
| Thirukannapuram                     | Thanjavur              |
| Thirunaraiyur                       | Kumbakonam             |
| Thiruvazhundur                      | Mayiladuthurai         |
| Thirunagari                         | Nagapattinam           |
| Thiruthuruthi                       | Mayiladuthurai         |
| Thirumanimadam                      | Mayiladuthurai         |
| Thirukannangudi                     | Mayiladuthurai         |
| Thirukavalambadi                    | Mayiladuthurai         |
| Thirukolur                          | Thoothukudi            |
| Thiruvalathur                       | Nagapattinam           |
| Thirupullani                        | Ramanathapuram         |
| Thiruthiruperai                     | Tirunelveli            |
| Thirukulandhai                      | Tirunelveli            |
| Thirumeyyam                         | Pudukkottai            |
| Thirukoshtiyur                      | Sivaganga              |
| Thirukkarambanoor                   | Tiruchirappalli        |
| Thiru Patiyur                       | Karur                  |
| Thiruchittrambalam                  | Thanjavur              |
| Thirukannangudi                     | Nagapattinam           |

## Pandya Nadu Divya Desam Temples (18 Temples)

| **Temple Name**                   | **City/District**      |
|-----------------------------------|-------------------------|
| Srivilliputhur Andal Temple       | Srivilliputhur         |
| Koodal Azhagar Temple             | Madurai                |
| Thiruthangal                      | Virudhunagar           |
| Thirumoghur                       | Madurai                |
| Thiruppullani                     | Ramanathapuram         |
| Thirukoshtiyur                    | Sivaganga              |
| Thirumeyyam                       | Pudukkottai            |
| Thirukkurungudi                   | Tirunelveli            |
| Azhwar Thirunagari                | Tirunelveli            |
| Thiruthiruperai                   | Tirunelveli            |
| Thirukulandhai (Thenthiruperai)   | Tirunelveli            |
| Thirukolur                        | Tirunelveli            |
| Thiruvanparisaram                 | Kanyakumari            |
| Thirupathiur                      | Sivaganga              |
| Thiruparamkunram                  | Madurai                |
| Thirumaliruncholai (Azhagar Koil) | Madurai                |
| Thirukannamangai                  | Nagapattinam           |
| Nava Tirupati (9 Temples combined)| Tirunelveli            |


## Tondai Nadu Divya Desam Temples (22 Temples)

| **Temple Name**                   | **City/District**      |
|-----------------------------------|-------------------------|
| Sri Varadaraja Perumal Temple     | Kanchipuram            |
| Sri Deepa Prakasar Temple         | Kanchipuram            |
| Sri Ulagalantha Perumal Temple    | Kanchipuram            |
| Sri Ashtabhujakaram Temple        | Kanchipuram            |
| Sri Vaikunta Nathan Temple        | Kanchipuram            |
| Sri Pandava Thootha Temple        | Kanchipuram            |
| Thiruooragam                      | Kanchipuram            |
| Thiruthanka                       | Kanchipuram            |
| Thiruvelukkai                     | Kanchipuram            |
| Thiruneeragam                     | Kanchipuram            |
| Thirukarvanam                     | Kanchipuram            |
| Thirukachur                       | Chengalpattu           |
| Thiruneermalai                    | Chennai                |
| Sri Parthasarathy Temple          | Chennai                |
| Thiruvidandai                     | Chennai                |
| Thirupadagam                      | Kanchipuram            |
| Thiruputkuzhi                     | Kanchipuram            |
| Thiruvellikeni                    | Chennai                |
| Thiruthiruvallikeni               | Chennai                |
| Thirupavalavannam                 | Kanchipuram            |
| Thirunilathingal                  | Kanchipuram            |
| Thiruthiruparamkundram            | Kanchipuram            |

## Nadu Nadu Divya Desam Temples (5 Temples)

| **Temple Name**                   | **City/District**      |
|-----------------------------------|-------------------------|
| Thiruvahindrapuram Temple         | Cuddalore              |
| Thirukannangudi Temple            | Mayiladuthurai         |
| Thirukkannamangai Temple          | Thanjavur              |
| Thirumanimadam Temple             | Mayiladuthurai         |
| Thirunagari Temple                | Nagapattinam           |

# From Kerla
Here is the complete list of 13 Divya Desam temples located in **Kerla**:

| **Temple Name**                   | **City/District**      |
|-----------------------------------|-------------------------|
| Sri Padmanabhaswamy Temple        | Thiruvananthapuram     |
| Thiruvalla Temple                 | Thiruvalla             |
| Moozhikulam Temple                | Ernakulam              |
| Thirukatkarai Temple              | Ernakulam              |
| Thiruvankulam Temple              | Kottayam               |
| Thirupuliyur Temple               | Kozhikode              |
| Thiruthanikai Temple              | Alappuzha              |
| Thiruvilwamala Temple             | Thrissur               |
| Thirumandhamkunnu Temple          | Malappuram             |
| Thiruvanjikulam Temple            | Ernakulam              |
| Thiruvikramangalam Temple         | Palakkad               |
| Thiruvanvandoor Temple            | Kottayam               |
| Thirumandhamkunnu Temple          | Malappuram             |

# From Andra Pradesh
Here is the complete list of 13 Divya Desam temples located in **Andhra Pradesh**:

| **Temple Name**                   | **City/District**      |
|-----------------------------------|-------------------------|
| Sri Venkateswara Temple           | Tirupati               |
| Ahobilam Narasimha Swamy Temple   | Kurnool                |

# From Karnataka
Here is the complete list of 13 Divya Desam temples located in **Karnataka**:

| **Temple Name**                   | **City/District**      |
|-----------------------------------|-------------------------|
| Srirangapatna Ranganathaswamy Temple | Srirangapatna         |

# From UttarPradesh
Here is the complete list of 13 Divya Desam temples located in **Uttar Pradesh**:

| **Temple Name**                   | **City/District**      |
|-----------------------------------|-------------------------|
| Naimisaranya Temple               | Sitapur                |
| Gokul Balaji Temple               | Mathura                |
| Ayodhya Rama Temple               | Ayodhya                |

# From Uttarkand
Here is the complete list of 13 Divya Desam temples located in **Uttarakhand**:

| **Temple Name**                   | **City/District**      |
|-----------------------------------|-------------------------|
| Badrinath Temple                  | Badrinath             |

# From Nepal
Here is the complete list of 13 Divya Desam temples located in **Nepal**:

| **Temple Name**                   | **City/District**      |
| Mukthinath Temple                 | Mustang                |

# Reference Link(s)
Update soon

# Google Map state wise
Update soon
